### Accessible contacts showed the stripe pattern

MICC-seq captures contact signals between accessible chromatin regions while also have the ability to  profiling inaccessible chromatin contacts through DpnII digestion, which only digests unlabeled regions. For comparison, we downloaded the HiCAR, ChIATAC, Micro-C, HiC and normalized to the same depth. We first performed quality control of these samples. We generated 400M reads per sample with an average 90% valid pair ratio. The accessible contacts contained 50% more cis-long reads than both HiC and inaccessible contacts. In the distance decay curve, we found that accessible contacts displayed much longer interactions than conventional HiC and DpnII-based inaccessible interactions, and HiCAR and Micro-C. Further exploration of the contact maps revealed striking patterns of fine-resolution stripes in MICC-seq accessible contact maps that clearly distinguished them from inaccessible chromatin contacts. While the inaccessible contact map displayed TADs and A/B compartments, it lacked fine organized structures, similar to conventional Hi-C. The inaccessible interactions showed strong correlations with HiC (0.86 and 0.91) in insulation score and eigen value, respectively.  As expected, the accessible contact interactions displayed much lower correlation due to their entirely different contact map pattern. The Ordered stripe lattice pattern is not observed HiCAR (12878 cells ) and ChIATAC (ECS cells).

To investigate the spatial-temporal relationship between accessible and inaccessible chromatin, we examined SCA-seq, which uses GpC methyltransferase to label accessible regions and long-read sequencing to simultaneously capture higher-order chromatin conformation and accessibility. We found that 90% of chromatin interactions originate from inaccessible contacts. In higher-order chromatin contacts (>2), accessible contacts were frequently accompanied by neighboring inaccessible contacts, suggesting that inaccessible contacts might create ligation noise that masks the stripe pattern. This finding indicates that specific digestion of accessible contacts is necessary to observe the stripe pattern—a unique feature of our method that distinguishes it from HiCAR and ChIATAC, which simultaneously digest and ligate both accessible and inaccessible interactions.

Compared to the HiC, Micro-C, our method detected 10× more stripes, 20x loops and 4× more contacts enriched in promoters and enhancers. HiCAR and ChIATAC likely detect more contacts between accessible and inaccessible regions. Following this discovery, we conducted a comprehensive examination to characterize these distinctive stripe patterns and determine their biological significance.